---
layout: post
title: "Hello World"
permalink: /about
date: 2023-09-05 21:21:39 -0300
---

Greetings,

For this first post I thought it would be best if I introduced myself. My name is
Ricardo and I was born in Brazil in July of the year 1991. When I'm not at my desk
studying about computers and technology or occasionally gaming, I like to [play
guitar][pathos] and write songs. I have a small vinyl [collection][discogs] and own a
few vintage out of print esoteric books. On some weekends, if I'm lucky, I'll be
crossing the finish line in a racing car at a track somewhere. But more commonly I'll be
offline enjoying the company of my beautiful wife. I'm also a private pilot currently
pursuing my IFR license. As you see, I've been dedicating my time across many interests,
but my goal here is mostly to write about software, at least initially.

I'm about just as much as old as the Linux project itself, and I was about 10 years old
when I first learned that computers could be used for more than playing games, at a time
when Brazilian internet providers were booming. By then, my older brother was already
hacking around and he got me into mIRC Scripting. Maybe an odd choice for a first
programming language, but I was determined to do what any kid would probably think about
doing: create my own game, of course :). That natural curiosity and stubbornness was
responsible for leading me down a path of experimental learning, which helped me create
the solid foundation where I stand today. We truly stand on the shoulders of giants when
it comes to software. Anyhow, I still remember the feeling of awe I had when my brother
first brought home a Mandrake Linux CD-ROM. One of the first things I noted was that the
mouse cursor was black! That was cool. Many years later, there I was at the university
studying with classmates getting to know about programming for the first time. It felt
weird, because it was so natural to me.

After the mIRC days came the Linux exploring nights, trying to learn as much as I could
out of the shell and the old C books my father had laying around. The major problem I
had though, is that I also had to learn English. It was rather confusing but eventually
I reached a 'good enough' point. I remember the first time I felt that I was actually
having some better understanding was when I accepted the challenge of installing the
recently launched Slackware 12. A few weeks later I would run 'make menuconfig' on the
2.6 kernel for the first time. Suffice to say that I wasn't able to boot it. So begins
my distro hopping days. I learned a lot those days, but I had a common teenager problem:
focus. I wanted to do everything. I still do, but as you get older you learn to optimize
your time and energy, while knowing yourself a bit more to define priorities more
easily. But then, I decided that programming wasn't for me and I got distracted with a
million things. Mostly gaming and music.

When I joined the university I wasn't sure if I would pursue a Math, Physics or
Computing degree. I flirted with those other areas only to be confronted with the harsh
reality that I was pretty bad at it. My natural aptitude put me back on track to
programming. I also was able to get my first job as a PHP web developer, after a year or
so as a research mentee. In the 3.x kernel days my main driver was Linux Mint. At least
until I bought a Macbook and decided to get my feet wet with audio engineering. I don't
regret it, but that has set me back another year or so.

After getting tired of the Apple jail and a brief period of FreeBSD and Arch Linux,
struggling to keep the system stable, I decided to give Gentoo and later Funtoo a spin
with the 4.x kernels. I used that extensively for years. That's when I first read about
the development process within the Linux project. I also went through the first levels
of the [Eudyptula Challenge][eudyptula] and the [IO wargame][io], which got me very
excited after spending so much time in the web development maze.

I'm happy to say that my distro hopping days are over though and Debian is my weapon of
choice. I regret not taking the time earlier to read more about the project and its
organization, but everything I did turned out to be exactly what I needed to learn at
the time. As the old saying goes, all roads lead to Rome. In any case, I was busy in the
last few years studying cryptocurrencies and finance in general, while hacking around
with a lot of Python in between.

[pathos]: https://pathos.band/
[discogs]: https://www.discogs.com/user/rbmarliere/collection
[eudyptula]: http://eudyptula-challenge.org/
[io]: https://io.netgarage.org/
